Editorial - Min Max Sort (#6213)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/cf-1792C.mdx

Reviewer: Number of elements left outside divided by 2?

Author: yes yes

---
id: cf-1792C
source: CF
title: Min Max Sort
author: Rameez Parwez
---

[Official Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/111835)

# Solution

## Explanation

If our array is sorted, then we don't need to perform any
operations. Hence our answer will be $0$. Otherwise, we have to

> think about what our last operation would look like to make the
> array perfectly sorted as: $1, 2, 3, ..., n$. If we observe
> carefully, we can deduce one important hint from the operations
> mentioned in the problem statement: our last operation must be
> to move 1 to the front of the array and n to the back of the
> array to make it sorted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If our array is sorted, then we don't need to perform any
operations. Hence, our answer will be $0$. Otherwise, we have to
think about what our last operation would look like to make the
array sorted as: $1, 2, 3, ..., n$. We can deduce one important hint from the operations
mentioned in the problem statement: our last operation must move $1$ to the front of the array, and $n$ to the back of the
array to make it sorted.
```

So now we know what our last operation will be. Let's focus on the
remaining elements: $2, 3, 4, ..., n - 1$. We can apply the same
analysis from above. Either the numbers are already sorted
(answer: $1$), or we need to perform some more operations (moving
$2$ and $n - 1$ to the front and back respectively). Similarly, we
keep repeating this until our remaining segment is sorted.

At each step, we need to check if the numbers in the segment
$[k, n - k + 1]$ are sorted or not. A key observation here is that
if a segment $[k, n - k + 1]$ is sorted for some value $k$, then it
will be sorted for larger values as well. So we can start with
the maximum value of $k$ (i.e. $\lfloor \frac{n + 1}{2} \rfloor

> $) and shrink inwards until the segment remains sorted.

Reviewer 2: doesn't the actual code work a bit differently? i.e., starting from the middle and expanding outwards until it stops being sorted

assuming I'm not misreading, I think it'd be better to explain this somewhere (i.e., finding the largest sorted subsequence of the 'center' of the array translates to the repeatedly 'fixing' the borders of the array part)

Author: Okay, I have addressed this in the updated explanation

For each $k$, we need to verify two boundary pairs:

- Is the number $k$ located to the left of $k + 1$ in the array?
- Is the number $n - k$ located to the left of $n - k + 1$ in the array?

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

int main() {
	int test_cases;
	std::cin >> test_cases;
	while (test_cases--) {
		int n;
		std::cin >> n;
		std::vector<int> index(n);
		for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
			int x;
			std::cin >> x;
			x--;
			index[x] = i;
		}

		int lo = n / 2, hi = n - lo;

> 		while (lo > 0 and index[lo - 1] < index[lo] and index[hi] > index[hi - 1]) {

Reviewer 2: prefer `&&` instead of `and`, mainly for consistency

---
id: cf-1792C
source: CF
title: Min Max Sort
author: Rameez Parwez
---

[Official Editorial (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/111835)

# Solution

## Explanation

If our array is sorted, then we don't need to perform any
operations. Hence, our answer will be $0$. Otherwise, we have to
think about what our last operation would look like to make the
array sorted as: $1, 2, 3, ..., n$. We can deduce one important hint from the operations
mentioned in the problem statement: our last operation must move $1$ to the front of the array, and $n$ to the back of the
array to make it sorted.

So now we know what our last operation will be. Let's focus on the
remaining elements: $2, 3, 4, ..., n - 1$. We can apply the same
analysis from above. Either the numbers are already sorted
(answer: $1$), or we need to perform some more operations (moving
$2$ and $n - 1$ to the front and back respectively). Similarly, we
keep repeating this until our remaining segment is sorted.

At each step, we need to check if the numbers in the segment

> $[k, n - k + 1]$ are sorted or not. A key observation here is that

Reviewer: clarify whether index-wise or like the subset of the numbers in the permutation

Author: Okay

array to make it sorted.

So now we know what our last operation will be. Let's focus on the
remaining elements: $2, 3, 4, ..., n - 1$. We can apply the same
analysis from above. Either the numbers are already sorted
(answer: $1$), or we need to perform some more operations (moving
$2$ and $n - 1$ to the front and back respectively). Similarly, we
keep repeating this until our remaining segment is sorted.

At each step, we need to check if the numbers in the segment
$[k, n - k + 1]$ are sorted or not. Here, the segment refers to
the subset of values (i e. the numbers from $k, k + 1, k + 2, ..., n - k + 1$),
and we are checking if they appear in increasing order of
their positions in the array. A key observation here is that
if a segment $[k, n - k + 1]$ is sorted for some value $k$, then it
will be sorted for larger values as well. So we can start with
the maximum value of $k$ (i.e. $\lfloor \frac{n + 1}{2} \rfloor
$) and expands outwards as long as the segment reamins sorted.
The point where we can no longer expand will give us the largest
sorted middle segment, and the number of elements left outside divided

> by $2$ is our answer, since every operations considers on pair of elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If our array is sorted, then we don't need to perform any
operations. Hence, our answer will be $0$. Otherwise, we have to
think about what our last operation would look like to make the
array sorted as: $1, 2, 3, \dots, n$. We can deduce one important hint from the operations
mentioned in the problem statement: our last operation must move $1$ to the front of the array, and $n$ to the back of the
array to make it sorted.

So now we know what our last operation will be. Let's focus on the
remaining elements: $2, 3, 4, \dots, n - 1$. We can apply the same
analysis from above. Either the numbers are already sorted, or we need to move $2$ to the front and $n-1$ to the back. We
keep repeating this until our remaining segment is sorted.

At each step, we need to check if the numbers in the segment
$[k, n - k + 1]$ are sorted or not. Here, the segment refers to
the subset of values (i e. the numbers from $k, k + 1, k + 2, \dots, n - k + 1$),
and we are checking if they appear in increasing order of
their positions in the array. A key observation here is that
if a segment $[k, n - k + 1]$ is sorted for some value $k$, then it
will be sorted for larger values as well. So we can start with
the maximum value of $k$ (i.e. $\lfloor \frac{n + 1}{2} \rfloor
$) and expands outwards as long as the segment remains sorted.
The point where we can no longer expand will give us the largest
sorted middle segment, and the number of elements left outside divided
by $2$ is our answer, since every operation fixes a pair of elements.
```

just some minor writing tweaks

For each $k$, we need to verify two boundary pairs:

- Is the number $k$ located to the left of $k + 1$ in the array? (i.e. $index[k] < index[k + 1]$)

> - Is the number $n - k$ located to the left of $n - k + 1$ in the array? (i.e. $index[n - k] < index[n - k + 1]$)

Reviewer 2: <img width="1540" height="283" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9f1bb329-904d-4666-ac16-4fba1a49a42e" />

this renders kinda weird

IMO, maybe smth like $\text{idx}[k]$? i think `\text` would make it look better

Author: Okay. I have updated it now.

Author: <img width="1153" height="139" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6a8bf5dd-3b5b-47f1-912f-88088f684ab5" />

looks good now
